So far we have been talking about the topology of now networks or whether we are dealing with just a
single hidden layer or we are dealing with lots of lots of hidden layers as far as deep learning is
concerned.
Basically the approach is the same.
So we have to optimize that given last function with the help of gradient descent or has the gradient
descent.
So if we have the given adequate Let's suppose the situation that we have just two educates in hour
an hour and after work w one and a WTU And of course we have the last function.
If you may recall last function it measures how close the given our network is to the ideal.
OK so this is the last function.
So finally we have to make some optimization in order to reduce the error or as much as possible.
So we have to change the double edged weights.
This is how we train the national network.
And if we change the edge weights of course the last function will change as well.
So the error in our now will and that work will change whether it is going to increase or it is going
to decrease.
Of course we are after the double you educate that minimize the LW loss function.
This is what we have been discussing that the function defines the difference between the actual value
that we know from our training data set and the prediction made by our now rail network.
If the last function is approximately zero it means that y is the Coastie y prime.
So there is no error in our network and that were this is exactly what we are after.
So we have to change the educate in order to end up with this situation.
So basically these actuates are going to define a multi dimensional surface and we have to find the
lowest point possible.
So higher regions means the networks makes lots of mistakes because the LW loss function there you are
big lower regions means that the network is making good predictions because the last functions values
are small.
So we have defined the low regions as far as the last function is concerned.
We initialize the W weights at random.
This is how we implemented our feet forward.
Now we're on a network from scratch in the second part of this artificial intelligence series.
So we start from a given point in this landscape because we have W-why N.W.T. we initialize them at
random.
So we start from a given point and basically we want to end up with the lowest point possible.
So we just have to use the negative gradient that's pointing in the direction of the lowest point.
We just have to follow the gradient.
So that's why we repeat until convergence W.J. is equal to the W.J. miners the alpha which is the learning
rate times the gradient the partial derivative of the last function with respect to the double.
Educate is scored the gradient.
And this is why we have to use derivatives because the derivative is going to point to the direction
of the highest point.
But we are after the lowest point.
So that's why we have to multiply it by minus 1.
So this is why it's going to be minus Alpha and the gradient.
OK.
So this is called the gradient descent.
When we start from a given point and we follow the gradient in order to find the given minimum it is
working fine for cone of X last functions.
For example like this because this function has just a single minimum.
But what about this one as we can see we have a local minimum and we have a global minimum.
So if a gradient descent reaches a local minimum for example here it is effectively trapped.
And this is one drawback of the algorithm.
What do you do.
This is why matter how realistic algorithms came to be such as genetic algorithms or simulated annealing.
So in artificial intelligence part one we have been talking about matter how eristic approach is simulated
annealing genetic algorithms and porticos form optimization.
And this is the main advantage as far as these algorithms are concerned that they are able to avoid
local monomers and they are able to find the global minimum.
And when we are training in our own network it is crucial.
So we would like to avoid local monomers and we would like to end up with the global minimum.
By the way in normalizing the original data that is usually helpful when we are dealing with machine
learning approaches or artificial neural networks we can normalization with minimax normalization that
we have the given sample.
It is the value in the data set and we use this transformation.
X minus the minimum out of the samples.
Divide by the maximum minus the minimum.
So this is how we use minimax normalization and normalization makes sure gradient descent will converge
faster and more accurately by the way.
Gradient descent is working fine for most of the cases.
If not we have to use matter how eristic algorithms or it is a good approach to use minimax normalization
at the beginning to make sure that gradient descent will converge faster and it's going to be more accurate.
OK the other very very popular method is still has the gradient descent.
So for a gradient descent we calculate the overall loss across all the training data set and then we
calculate the gradient for stochastic gradient descent.
We compute the gradient and paramita or vector update after every single training sample.
If you use a subset of the original training data set it is called many back stochastic gradient descent.
So what's the difference between these approaches for the gradient descent.
We are going to use all the values in the data set for still has the gradient descent where we just
use a single of the value from the data set exclusively and for many batched has the gradient descent
we are going to use a subset of the original training data set.
So Grady in the sand Convergys slowly but because of this it is more accurate and it is deterministic.
It is going to converge to the same minimum.
If we rerun the algorithm over and over again it is going to find the same minimum still has the gradient
descent on the other hand is faster because it uses less data.
Hence it is not that accurate and it is to hasty it not always converges to the same minima.
So if we rerun the still has the gradient descent over and over again it is going to find different
values as the minimum.
So it is stochastic onli gradient descent which is deterministic.
Thanks for watching.